It this lesson we're going to be using son and I going to be showing you parts and a string of phi.
So this is also something that we saw in one of the earlier lessons where we were storing information.
So it's good practice to get used to parsing it and string a flying Jason and we're going to take a
closer look at Jason within the application as well.
So first of all let's build it a party invite checklist.
So we're going to have a party invite checklist and we're going to have the ability to check off people
that we've invited to the party people into the party and so on.
And we're actually going to be pulling in this Jason information from an external file.
So the content of this particular application is actually going to be sitting in a jail on file.
And that means that we need to pull it in and we need to make use of it within Javascript.
And it's actually just going to be sitting in the external file and it's not going to be Jason.
Jason it's going to still be a javascript object.
Well we're going to define a variable that's going to contain a string value of the sun information
and then later on we're going to update this to be an actual jigsaw file.
So the first thing we need to do is create a brand new file and within this file We're actually going
to create a variable and we're going to call it data.
So this is where all of our adjacent information is going to be held.
And then within here we need to create we need to represent it as we normally would with just regular
data with the square brackets.
And then the Giese on curly brackets are going to be inside of there.
And this is going to give us the ability to grab that information as we know that this is actually going
to be a string and we're going to parse that back into our application and then make use of the the
data that we're going to have sitting in here.
So we need to create some guests for our party and we're going to create it in a song format so don't
forget to have the quotes around the Keys and the values.
So we're going to have a name for each one of our guests.
So first guest is John.
And then also they can bring some additional guests.
So we'll just call that guests and then so this is just going to be a number.
So we're going to just do three for now and next.
Let's do the status.
So we're going to have a number of guests that are going to be able to bring their own additional guests
into it and we're going to have a checklist that we can either check off as true or false.
So there we go.
So this is our first guest and I'm going to copy this format and I'm going to create some more guests.
So we've got John and remember too because this is a string value we need to keep it all within that
same line.
So there's no space there.
And the reason it's going to the second line is that the editors actually wrapping it.
So this is not something that you would typically do by wrapping it into the following line.
And next guest So Mike is going to bring five people with them and we'll set this status to be false.
So we haven't verified them yet.
So this is also going to be simulating that if we want to actually create a Jaison file we want to render
it out from a server.
We can do it within this type of format and pick up that information and make use of it within our Javascript.
So Jenny is going to bring to people and the status is going to be false.
So let's save that.
And I'm just going to call it juice on Daut Jason.
So there we go.
So now we've got a basic file that we can make use of and we can pull that information back in if we
actually open this up.
We're not going to really see anything there.
If I was to go to J.
So instead of inducts if I go to Jason Jason you can see that it just outputs that information and it
isn't output within that same format.
And if I was to grab this.
So whatever's between the quotes and if I was to go to limted it's still a valid Jaison.
So it doesn't matter that we've got those square brackets around it.
So that's just allowing us to incorporate it as the first item within the array.
And this is just the way that we do it until we actually produce an actual Jesus on file that we can
parse through and we are going to need Ajax or some other format of reading the file contents in order
using AJAX to actually pull that file information in.
And for now all we're going to be doing is we're just going to be linking to this japes on file and
that's actually just going to bring it in and it's going to allow us to load it within our Javascript.
So just as we would a J.S. file so the idea is the same thing here and that's why we had to set a variable
data to equal Jaison.
So let's go jump back to our editor and we're going to flip back into our index start to.
And remember we've got Jason Dodd Jason down here.
So now let's bring this into our application.
And as mentioned this idea is pretty much the same way we bring in a javascript file so that we get
the script file and we specify the source and we equal the source to be whatever whatever the path to
our file is going to be.
So there we go.
So now let's try it in the browser.
Let's go back and refresh it.
And now if I do data well you can see that I've got all of that information.
And I also notice that this is within a string format because we did need a way and that's where we
are.
Another reason we had to set a variable here is that we didn't need a way to actually grab that and
identify that information because we don't aren't using an actual real JS ON FILE we've got Giese on
data within a string format.
That's basically what we're doing and we're representing a variable to grab that information.
So the next part of it is to actually grab that information and make use of it within our application.
So let's set up a variable and they're going to call this variable party.
So this is going to be all of the people that are going to get invited to our party and we're going
to use Jason and the method parce.
So this is going to allow us to parse a string as and Jason.
So basically we've got a string here and we need to make that string usable.
And that's where we're just going to identify it and parse it through there and then all console actual
just console Lague party mode when we refresh the page.
So there we go SUNO hit party and we've got it in a usable format.
So if I was to say party and I want to get the first person or the second person identified as one so
this is going to be Mike and if I want to see the name I can retrieve it back that way.
And so basically at this point we can make use of this data loaded in from the file and to make use
of it within our application.
So I don't want you to do now pause the video and before we go into the next lesson I want you to create
your own Giese on list.
So create name guests a number of guests and then make use of that information within your javascript
file.
And before we complete this lesson you might have noticed here that I've got numbers and I'm quoting
them and when I pull that information out it actually translates and it's still a string value.
So we can remove out the quotes here and this is still going to be valid.
Jason so where we are able to do this and because we've got the quote around it and this is a string
value whenever we parse that through this is still going to be valid.
So that's the other thing too that we're going to go ahead and we're going to remove out all of these
quotes and then I'll show you that this is still going to be within a valid Jaison format.
So go ahead and save that.
If I go out here and if I refresh and I do party I can see that all of those values.
So these are no longer going to be counted as strings there's numbers and they're booleans.
And if I was to take that entire string go out into the limt
and validate that Jaison would see that it's still valid.
Jason So you're OK if you using numbers or booleans to not include the quotes for the value.
So go ahead and create at that file that we're going to use in the next lesson in order to build out
our party planning and party invite checklist application.